Qs1) How to check if git is available on your system?
Ans: To check whether or not you have git installed, simply open a "terminal window and tyoe 'git --version' ".

Qs2) How to initialize a new Git repository?
Ans: To initialize a new Git repository, you can use the following steps:
1. Crate a new folder for you porject
2. Open a terminal window and navigate to the new folder.
3. Run this command 'git init' , this will create a new Git repository in the Current folder.

Qs3) How to tell git about your name and email?
Ans: To tell Git about your name and email, you can use the "git config" command. Open your teminal or command prompt and type : git config --global user.name "Your Name" and git config --global user.email "Your email-id".

Qs4) How to add a file to the staging area?
Ans: To add a file to the staging area, you can use the 'git add <filenme>' command.
Here are the steps on how to add a file to the staging area:
1. Open a terminal window.
2. Navigate to the directory containing the file you want to add.
3. Run the following command: 'git add <filename>'

Qs5) How to remove a file from the staging area?
And: To remove a file to the staging area, you can use the 'git rm --cached <filenme>' command.
Here are the steps on how to remove a file to the staging area:
1. Open a terminal window.
2. Navigate to the directory containing the file you want to remove.
3. Run the following command: 'git rm --cached <filename>'

Qs6) How to make a commit?
Ans: To make a commit, you can use the 'git commit -m "Comment whatever you write here"' command.
Here are the steps on how to remove a file to the staging area:
1. Open a terminal window.
2. Navigate to the directory containing the file you want to commit.
3. Run the following command: 'git commit -m "Comment whatever you write here"'

Qs7) How to send your changes to a remote repository?
Ans: To send changes to a remote repository, you can follow these steps:
1. Open your command prompt or terminal window.
2. Navigate to the local directory of your repository.
3. Run the command "git add ." to add all changes to the staging area.
4. Run the command "git commit -m 'Commit message'" to create a new commit with your changes.
5. Run the command "git push origin master" or "git push origin your-branch-name" to push your changes to the remote repository.

Qs8) What is the difference between clone and pull?
Ans: git clone : It is used to clone the repository to the working directory of the developer.
Syntax : git clone <url>
git pull : It is used to fetch the latest changes made in the remote repository to the working directry.
Syntax: git pull